---
layout: post
title:  "The Normans From Raiders to Kings by Lars Brownworth"
date:   2015-1-21
categories: notes books
---

King Harold of England has his armies ready for the invasion rumored to come. But he can't keep his armies in the field forever and as fall approaches he disbands them and they prepare for winter.  Then news arrives the Viking King Hadrad had invaded with Harold's estranged brother and had taken the city of York.


York has agreed to give hostages to the vikings at a nearby bridge. So the vikings return to their ships and at the appointed time arrive to receive the hostages. To their surprise they are met with an army instead.

King Harold had covered 185 miles in four days with his army and was able to fend of the viking attack. The victory was short lived news came that the Duke of Normandy from France was invading London.  Harold rushed his army back but was defeated and killed.

So a Norman became ruler of Britain as well as the most powerful leader in France.

The book tells of their rise and fall and rise and fall.  The Normans created a kingdom in Sicily and southern Italy and had a huge impact on Europe during their reigns.

I was struck with the futility of these men. They fought, they killed then died and left nothing permanent or prosperous in their wake. Well maybe some did but it didn't last very long.  

It was a violent time to live. It makes me grateful for the rule of law ideas that come down from the Anglo Saxons and their Magna Carta.  

All in all it was rather depressing to listen to the terrible things humans have done to each other for power and greed. 